Hello everyone.
Welcome to part a regular expressions regular expressions allow us to search for patterns in Python
strings and they can seem incredibly intimidating at first due to their strange syntax.
We're going to be walking through the basics of regular expressions and we will use them in Gengel when
we talk about you or else.
All right let's get started.
OK let's begin with the very basics of regular expressions and we can start by importing the r e module
for regular expressions.
In one of the most common use cases for the regular expression module is to find patterns in text.
So I'm going to create a list called patterns and will say term one and term two.
So these are the patterns I'm going to be looking for and then I'm going to have some text to actually
parse.
So I'll say this is a string with term one but not the other.
So now has term one inside of it but it doesn't have the actual other term and then what I'm going to
do is say for pattern in patterns I'm going to say Prince I'm searching for and then I'm going to say
pattern.
So if we save and run this right now shouldn't be anything of much consequence but let's make sure everything's
working.
So Python notes that PI entered says I'm searching for term one I'm searching for term too.
So let's show you how you can use the regular expressions model to actually make that search.
So I'm first going to check if there's a match so I call R E dot and then the search function for that.
And it takes two main parameters the pattern and the string so it stands through the string to find
the pattern.
So the first thing to do is say search passen the pattern I'm looking for and then pass in the text.
I want to search for.
And this returns true if it finds a match.
So if we find the match We're going to say match else will say Prince non-match save this.
And now let's run the code.
In here we can say when I search for term one I find the match because it's inside that text I'm searching
for Turn 2.
There is no match.
It's not inside that text.
So our search very simple function pass the pattern you're looking for in text you want to search and
you get back a boolean value indicating if it's inside that.
Now often you don't want the actual boolean value you want the actual location.
And if we take a closer look at this our search will notice that it doesn't actually return a straight
boolean value.
It's actually not true or false.
It returns a special matched type.
Turns a match object.
And let me show that to you by getting rid of this.
Now let's take this all out of the if loop and it's sort of saying our search and we say match is equal
to this.
Now let's get rid of that colon here.
And then I'm going to say prints the type of that match object save this run our code again and wups
actually say term 1 just do one of them here.
So I don't need this patterns anymore save this now run it.
And look what we get here before we are treating it as just a straight boolean value.
But it's actually this special regular expressions match object.
So what does it actually mean.
Will this match object returned by the search method is more than just that boolean or none.
It contains information about the match.
So this object already contains information about where the match starts and where the match ends.
Second grab it just by saying this matched dot start close parentheses.
Now if I run this I actually get back in integer.
Whoops that should have been outside of this type save this and I run it again.
Now I can see it starts an index position 22 within the string.
And to prove that to you let's make this text just say term 1.
So I would expect the match to begin straight at index 0.
So if I run this code again I get back the number 0 here which makes sense because my match starts at
0 in regular expressions.
Also have the ability to split a string on a particular pattern.
So if I say something like let's say split term split term is equal to we'll call it the at symbol.
Maybe we want to split something I can say that my phrase will just say e-mail is equal to user at gmail
dot com.
And then instead of E that search I can say are we split and then grab the split term and then pasand
the e-mail address.
Now let's just print that out and see what we get.
Save that comment that out and then run our code and here I get a split on that simple user and G-mail.
And we've seen this before.
This is actually built in already to strings so you could just say split as a method off of this on
the at symbol.
But it comes from the regular expression library.
So just keep that in mind.
It's already built into strings.
OK.
So we learn how to find the match and we learn how to do a split.
Now a lot of times there are more complicated patterns that you're going to be looking for or maybe
you want to find all the instances of a pattern and you can use are either find all the find all the
instances of a pattern in a string Let me show you what I mean by that going to clear all this and clear
this as well.
And I will say are either find all that Adam actually helping us here again it just takes a pattern
or a string and returns a list of all non overlapping matches in the string.
So I say something like match and then let's say test phrase match in middle they actually print the
results of this out so I can see it when I run my code.
I will save this run Python notes up high.
And here I can see if I get a list of match and if I add match one more time in there run this again
I can see I get a list of two matches so I could also just check the length of find all.
OK so we learned about the very basics of regular expression library calls that split that search call
the match object.
But what we're really going to be spending the bulk of this lecture when using regular expressions is
what is known as the Medich character syntax.
And if you've programmed with perl before this sort of syntax is going to be familiar if you but probably
for the most of you it's going to seem really strange at first but don't worry.
The idea here is not to memorize everything we show but just to be able to use it as a reference.
Come back to this lecture or look up regular expression plus Python Google and be able to answer your
own questions.
But let's start off by actually just showing an example in order to show examples of multiple examples
at once actually we are going to create a helper function and this helper function is going to be called
Multiply R E find.
And what it is is it's going to take in a list of patterns and some phrase and then it's going to go
through those patterns so for Pat and patterns we're going to do say Prince
searching for pattern and then let's say that forma and up and pat there.
And then I'm going to print R E find all of Pat and the phrase.
And then I will print a newline because we're going to do this multiple times.
So let's save that and that's a function we're going to be using often.
So let's start off with repetition syntax and there are five ways to express repetition in a pattern
a pattern followed by the Medak character Asterix is repeated 0 or more times.
So for instance let's get a test phrase here
and this test phrase going to be s d s d dot dot s s s d d d that S D D D D S D D D D and you can copy
and paste this from the notes so you don't have to listen to me talk.
And then we had a bunch of S's three dots here and then S and a bunch of these.
So the test pattern that I'm first going to test out here so test patterns again it's a list and I'm
going to say SD Asterix.
So here's my test pattern.
And what this stands for is I want to find an s followed by 0 or more these and keep in mind that kind
of strange wording 0 or more these.
So we're going to do now is call multi-site r e fine with my test patterns and I'm going to pass in
my test phrase.
Let's save this and run this and see what we get out Sify scroll up here.
I pretty much get back every instance of where there is an S I get s d s s d d d etc. which makes sense
because when you're using the asterisks this returns this pattern S-D followed by anything repeated
several more times so essentially you're kind of asking for almost anything.
Anything that starts an S at least.
So again the key thing with this Asterix and let me kind of separate it this out so we can kind of get
an idea here.
It's going to be an s followed by 0 or more Ds and the Asterix is attached to that d there.
And later on we'll show you how to attach it to more than one letter.
OK.
So that's not very helpful to just search for anywhere where there's an s followed by zero or more Ds.
So if we want it by one or more of these we put a plus sign.
So if we look at the results here this was 0 or more Ds which basically asked for anywhere there's an
s.
Now if I run it with one or more DS I get back these values and this makes a lot more sense.
Here I get s where it is followed by any count of these.
Now if I want it to be just 0 or 1 time I can put a question mark so I'm going to put a question mark
here.
Save this.
Run it again.
And now I get back where it was either zero or one time.
Again not very helpful but it is available to you.
That's the question marks in texts.
You'll probably want to know how do I define a specific counts.
So let's say I want to know what is it followed by three days where you use these curly brackets passen
the number you're interested in and then run the code in here I can see wherever it was followed by
three these which happened to be three instances here.
The first one here.
Second one here.
Third one here and then four one over here if you want to specify two numbers.
Maybe you're looking for two or three D's.
You can just pass in two comma three in this run the code again and we see here two or three.
These In this case there's no case.
So let's try to make this one run this again.
You know I see one or three of these.
Great.
OK so so far we've shown those special characters what the asterisk stands for.
The plus sign the question mark and then curly brackets again and asterisks followed by zero or more
a plus sign followed by one or more.
The question mark followed by either 0 or 1 and then the curly brackets where you can define the actual
number or pass in a list of numbers.
So far if I show you what we've done like s D-plus that looks for s followed by one or more Ds Let's
say I want to find s followed by several letters or several sealer letters.
So I want to know where S is followed by either S or D.
So again not together but separate here.
So let me know is basically what I'm asking here where S is followed by one or more S's or one or more
D's.
So if I save this and run this we're going to get back a lot of results.
So here are all the cases where the letter S is followed by either one or more S's or one or more Ds
and this makes sense as far as our result because it basically shows you any statement that started
with an s.
So the statement started in as here sort of finesse here.
Sort of an s here.
Note that we all start off and ask until we get to the second letter.
So that gets S-D us here as a success and then SDD the OK kind of weird and confusing I know but again
we're looking more towards being able to reference this instead of memorizing it.
Now I want to talk a little bit about exclusion and we can use the carrot symbol for exclusion.
And let me show you how we can do that.
So let's find a test phrase that isn't so strange and do something like this is a string exclamation
mark but it has punctuation period.
How can we remove it questionmark.
All right.
So often you're going to get a string and you want to strip it of all punctuation and the way we can
do that with regular expressions is by using the carrot symbol which I type like this that carrot symbol
shift that seeks to exclude terms.
And for example we do is we end up passing it inside of square brackets.
So square brackets curat symbol.
And then you pasan any symbols that you're looking for.
So for instance we'll look for an exclamation mark or period a question mark and then we say plus because
we're looking for one or more instances of that.
And that's the test pattern.
OK so now if we run this I say Python notes stop PI look at the result I get back I essentially get
back a list so searching for the pattern here but because it has this curat symbol it's going to remove
anywhere you can essentially think of it as almost like a multiple split call.
So you're saying find all but that special character the carrot lets it know that I want to essentially
remove all this and then later I have this list I could just join it all back together or do whatever
I wanted with the strings inside their OK.
Now let's discuss a few more examples that we probably won't run into during the course but may be useful
to actually see one of those is a sequence of lowercase characters.
You can just say lowercase a dash lowercase Z this will return sequences of lowercase characters.
If I run this now I see the sequences of all the lowercase characters.
So this you see the capital-T has been removed.
If I want sequences of uppercase characters I just capitalize a through Z here run this and then I get
the capital letters and there's a lot more you can do if this sequence is of lower and upper case letters
one uppercase letter followed by lower case letters etc..
You can check out the notes for all those patterns but we will be using these too often.
And then finally you can use escape codes their special Escape codes to find specific types of patterns
in your data such as digits non digits whitespace and more.
And those are indicated using a backslash.
So like I mentioned the escapes are indicated by prefixing the character with the backslash.
Unfortunately a backslash must itself be escaped in a normal Python string.
So the way we do that is by making it into a literal value with the letter R and this is where kind
of looks really weird because it almost looks like it should give an error but we type in our outside
of the string there then a backslash and then the special code for the escape.
So for instance D.
And then we can say plus here and this is the kind of regular expression that you look at it and it
almost looks like a different language.
You think it's an error it's not going to be Python but this will actually work and this will return
back a sequence of digits.
Let me change the string to something more appropriate with.
This is a string with numbers put in some numbers there and a symbol.
And for the symbol we can put something like hash tag we will save that and then if I run this code
I get back the numbers so lowercase D is essentially a special character code saying search for those
numbers are digits not digits.
That's a capital D run this and I get back all the digits so I want a sequence of whitespace.
That's a lowercase s.
Again all of these have the escape backslash and the R and then I get a list of all the whitespace.
Not super useful.
Also want to count how much whitespace there is capital S for the nonwhite space we can get the idea
that capital kind of goes with non So all the non whitespace.
If I want all the alphanumeric characters those are letters and numbers I can do a lowercase w not giving
back all the alphanumeric.
If I want the non-alphanumeric that's going to be something like the hash tag I can do a capital W and
that gives me a bunch of blanks and then I get the hash tag there.
So the spaces are also non-alphanumeric.
OK so in conclusion.
By now you should have a solid understanding of how to be able to reference the regular expressions.
Now there are a ton of more special character instances and if I say something in the jingoes section
that we haven't covered yet I'll be sure to kind of give a little extra explanation of what we're doing.
We will do anything super intensive for regular expressions in Jingo.
Essentially we'll be just using them with you or else to kind of figure out OK am I going to dot com
slash admen or slash views slash or else slash etc..
OK.
Hopefully you weren't super intimidated by this and you got a little bit of a good feel for what to
expect when you're viewing regular suppressions again.
I don't expect you to memorize any of this.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.